
Tempest is a classic into-the-screen shoot-em-up in which the player controls a claw-shaped ""Blaster"" ship that moves around the outer rim of a three-dimensional, wireframe tunnel. Enemies move down the tunnel towards the player's ship and must be destroyed. Any contact with either incoming enemy fire or the enemies themselves will cost the player a life. Completion of a tunnel will see the player warp through ""hyperspace"" to the next tunnel to tackle a new wave of enemies. 



The tunnels are each rendered in one of sixteen different geometric shapes. Enemies increase in number as the game progresses and if an enemy reaches the outer rim occupied by the player's Blaster ship, it will chase and attempt to kill the player. Rim enemies can be killed, but this is difficult to achieve. 



Some enemies also drag ""spikes"" - in the form of lines in the middle of the corridor - behind them as they travel up the tunnel towards the player. These spikes must be avoided during the ""hyperspace"" warp sequence at the end of the level, as contact results in the loss of a life. 



Two ""SuperZappers"" are available per level. The first SuperZapper kills all enemies on the playfield at the time of firing, while the second randomly kills only one enemy on the playfield. The SuperZapper does not affect enemy shots, spikes or enemies that have not yet landed on the playfield. 



One new feature Tempest introduces is ""Skill-Step"". This allows players to start a new game on the same level as was previously reached (although the new game must be restarted within thirty seconds) without having to replay previous levels. This allows skillful players to continue being challenged, while less experienced players can try to master higher levels. The 99 skill levels of play includes sixteen different playfields and seven different enemy targets. 



* The tubes are divided into cosmic corridors through which the aliens travel, although some aliens such as Pulsars and Flippers can move from one corridor to the next. Regardless of the tube shapes, aliens always begin their invasion from the small, distant end of the tube. The sixteen unique tube shapes are as follows : 



1. Circle 

2. Square 

3. Plus symbol 

4. Bow-tie 

5. Stylized Cross 

6. Triangle 

7. Clover 

8. V 

9. Steps 

10. U 

11. Completely Flat 

12. Heart 

13. Star 

14. W 

15. Fan 

16. Infinity Symbol (figure 8 on its side) 



The playfield's colour scheme changes every sixteen levels. In addition, other events also cause playfield colour variation. The SuperZapper causes the playfield to flash as enemies are zapped. Playfield rails flash rainbow colours when a player earns a bonus life and Pulsar enemies cause sections of the nearest rim to disappear and - during the pulse phase - adjacent rails to flash. 



Tempest level colour schemes: 



*Levels 1-16: 



Tunnel - blue 

Player ship - yellow 

SuperZapper - yellow 

Flippers - red 

Tankers - purple 

Spikers/Spikes - green 

Pulsars - N/A (these do not appear until the next colour scheme) 



*Levels 17-32: 



Tunnel - red 

Player ship - green 

SuperZapper - cyan 

Flippers - purple 

Tankers - blue 

Spikers/Spikes - cyan 

Pulsars - yellow 



*Levels 33-48: 



Tunnel - yellow 

Player ship - blue 

SuperZapper - blue 

Flippers - green 

Tankers - cyan 

Spikers/Spikes - red 

Pulsars - blue 



*Levels 49-64: 



Tunnel - cyan 

Player ship - blue 

SuperZapper - red 

Flippers - green 

Tankers - purple 

Spikers/Spikes - red 

Pulsars - yellow 



*Levels 65-80: 



Tunnel - black (invisible) 

Player ship - yellow 

SuperZapper - white 

Flippers - red 

Tankers - purple 

Spikers/Spikes - green 

Pulsars - cyan 



*Levels 81-96: 



Tunnel - green 

Player ship - red 

SuperZapper - purple 

Flippers - yellow 

Tankers - purple 

Spikers/Spikes - blue 

Pulsars - yellow 



Levels 97 and up - Keeps colour scheme from Levels 81-96, with random shapes from Level 99 onward."

